

** Climate Change Could Pose 'Catastrophic' Global Security Threats ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/environment/202002241078396397-climate-change-could-pose-catastrophic-global-security-threats---report/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
A new report by the National Security, Military and Intelligence Panel of the Center of Climate and Security found that climate change could pose great threats to “security environments, infrastructure and institutions” if global greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise.

According to the center’s report, which was  published Monday, “even at scenarios of low warming, each region of the world will face severe risks to national and global security in the next three decades.”
The researchers also found that even at low levels of warming, “dry and arid regions, least-developed countries, small island states, and the Arctic polar region” will become even more vulnerable. Due to the fact that such areas are involved in “significant military engagement,” continued warming will likely destabilize them. 
The report also found that industrialized regions of the world will experience “catastrophic effects,” “high levels of migration” and a “breakdown of key infrastructure and security institutions” due to global warming. 
In addition, the researchers warn that even the emissions levels set by the Paris Climate Agreement, which was created within the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2015 so that countries could set limits on their greenhouse gas outputs, are not enough to prevent such catastrophes from occurring. 
The researchers also predict that average global temperatures will increase by between 2.3 and 4.1 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century. 
“Even if all existing climate policies are implemented, we are on track to increase global temperatures by as high as 3.2°C by the end of the century,” the report warns.
Given the report’s findings, the researchers recommend “quickly reducing and phasing out global greenhouse gas emissions,” calling on the world to achieve net-zero global emissions as soon as possible. In addition, the world must adopt “climate-proof environments, infrastructure, institutions, and systems on which human security depends, and so we call for rapidly building resilience to current and expected impacts of climate change,” the reports notes. 
The researchers also urge the US to renew its efforts to respond to climate security threats. 
In September 2019, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change also warned that the consequences of climate change would be “sweeping” and “severe.” The panel’s Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate revealed that oceans are getting warmer and more acidic due to increased absorption of carbon dioxide, and their concentration of oxygen is lowering. The report also noted that ice loss from the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets has contributed to rising sea levels, which will increase by 1.1 meters by 2100 if emissions continue at their current rate. Without dramatic decreases in greenhouse gas emissions, the frequency of hurricanes and flash flooding will continue to grow, the report warned at the time. 
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
