

** BP Shut Down London HQ In Reaction to Climate Change Protest ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/uk/202002051078234374-bp-shut-down-london-hq-in-reaction-to-climate-change-protest-as-new-chief-executive-takes-over/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Bernard Looney, who was born in Ireland, takes over as chief executive from Bob Dudley. Mr Looney joined BP in 1991 as a drilling engineer and ended up leading their upstream division, which includes oil and gas exploration and production.
BP shut down its head office in London on Wednesday, 5 February, after climate change protesters tried to block the entrance.
The demonstration coincided with Chief Executive Bernard Looney's first day in office.
Greenpeace spokesman Stefano Gelmini said police arrested 12 activists but the police put the number detained as nine.
BREAKING: Greenpeace activists have just shut down @bp_plc’s HQ after delivering hundreds of solar panels to the new CEO.BP are digging us deeper into the #climateemergency by drilling for new oil & gas. They need to switch to 100% renewable energy - or shut down #BPShutdown pic.twitter.com/9572VRVxqF
​More than 100 Greenpeace activists attempted to put up 500 solar panels in front of BP's headquarters in St James' Square and olled oil barrels in front of the building's main entrance.
Greenpeace: RT GreenpeaceUK: ICYMI: Greenpeace activists have shut down bp_plc's HQ in London, after delivering 500 solar panels to the new CEO. BP are digging us deeper into the #climateemergency by drilling for new oil & gas. They need to switch to 1… pic.twitter.com/Rv0Su2YPxt
​Mr Looney is expected to set out his vision for BP's response to the low carbon energy transition next week.
Solar panels and lock ins outside BP HQ in central London. Greenpeace are protesting on new BP CEO Bernard Looney’s first day. pic.twitter.com/C1rTwm4CVN
​In a statement said Mr Looney "hopes that what he has to say then will give people a sense that we get it and are very serious about working to address the problem."
Climate change protestors block entrance of BP's London HQ with oil barrels & solar panels to mark Bernard Looney's first day as Chief Exec of the oil & gas giant: https://t.co/nNuwYQcqK7
​
 
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
