

** Mayor of Rome Condemns 'Shameful' Effigy of Climate Activist Greta ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/world/201910081076983092-mayor-of-rome-condemns-shameful-effigy-of-climate-activist-greta-thunberg-/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
An effigy was hung from a bridge to mock the method of the climate protesters. The mayor of Rome noted that all of the Eternal City is in support of the teenage activist.
Virginia Raggi, the mayor of Rome, on Monday condemned the “shameful” effigy depicting the eccentric teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg which had been hung from a bridge near the city airport.
“My solidarity and solidarity of all @Rome goes to [Greta Thunberg] and her family,” Raggi tweeted, speaking for the entire city. “Our climate commitment does not stop.”
According to WSET radio station, the effigy had a wig of hair in pigtails similar to Thunberg’s and a sign reading: “Greta is Your God!”
Vergognoso il manichino di @GretaThunberg ritrovato appeso a un ponte nella nostra città. A lei e alla sua famiglia la mia solidarietà e quella di tutta @Roma. Il nostro impegno sul clima non si ferma. pic.twitter.com/YXMXMJDA3D
​Local emergency services were tasked with removing the effigy, according to WSET.
On Monday, a climate change protester “hanged” himself from Story Bridge in Brisbane, Australia, demanding that the Queensland premier declare a national climate emergency.
While the move caused a brief interruption in traffic, a negotiator is now attempting to talk the protester into leaving his suspended hammock, Australia’s 7News report says.
Thunberg rose to prominence after delivering a strikingly aggressive speech before world leaders at the  annual UN General Assembly in New York. Thunberg has become the most prominent global icon for addressing climate change.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
