

** Tories Enraged as Boris Johnson Replaced with Ice Sculpture for ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911291077431215-johnson-replaced-ice-sculpture-skipping-climate-change-debate/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Boris Johnson was criticized by party leaders and represented by a dripping ice sculpture after refusing to appear in a televised election debate focusing on climate change.
Johnson's UK Conservative Party complained to the UK's broadcasting watchdog Ofcom ahead of the Channel 4 event, which saw Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, Liberal Democrat Jo Swinson and the heads of the UK's other main parties debating on their plans to tackle the climate crisis ahead of next month's poll.
The party said its offer of having minister Michael Gove stand in for Johnson was rejected by Channel 4, complaining that the decision "effectively seeks to deprive the Conservative Party of any representation and attendance at the Channel 4 News debate."
These are the introductory #ClimateDebate statements from the leaders of Labour, the SNP, Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and the Greens.Boris Johnson and Nigel Farage did not accept our invitation to attend. pic.twitter.com/NTHrDTK9hW
​
The program’s editor replied that Johnson "sent his two wing men" - Gove and Johnson's father, Stanley - to attempt to "argue their way into" a program intended only for leaders.
Johnson and Nigel Farage, the leader of the Brexit Party who also decided not to attend the debate, were replaced with ice sculptures bearing their parties' logos, which Channel 4 said was intended to "represent the emergency on planet earth."
The event took place on the same day that scientists warned the Earth is heading to a "tipping point," and hours after the European Parliament voted to declare a climate emergency. The UK became the first country to make such a declaration in May, after Corbyn's Labour Party led a successful push in the Parliament.
The UK Prime Minister, who is now campaigning for the UK General Elections, was earlier criticized by opposition both within his own party and from other parties when on Tuesday he refused to take part in an interview with BBC presenter Andrew Neil, which all of the other major leaders have done.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
