

** Bristol Residents Angry at Greta Thunberg After Her Supporters ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/uk/202003021078452271-bristol-residents-angry-at-greta-thunberg-after-her-supporters-damage-historic-college-green/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
According to various estimates, from 15,000 up to 30,000 people attended the Bristol Youth Strike 4 Climate rally last Friday, which took place on Bristol's College Green.
The residents of Bristol are angry at popular eco-activist Greta Thunberg after her supporters ruined the city's historic green.
Tens of thousands of people attended a climate change rally where Thunberg gave a speech before leading a march around Bristol.   
In rainy weather, much of the grass where people stood turned into mud. 
A fundraiser was set up after the rally, with some people calling on the organisers to compensate for the damaged green.
Jon Usher, head of partnerships of Bristol-based charity Sustrans, who set up a GoFundMe page, said, as quoted by BBC: 
The aftermath of the Bristol rally has been widely discussed on social media.
OH THE IRONYA fundraising page has been set up to repair College Green in Bristol after it was turned into a mud bath by crowds at today's climate strike. Thousands of people gathered in the rain to listen to Greta Thunberg deliver her message on protecting the environment. pic.twitter.com/LTUBvaL2pq
So environment lovers wrecked the environment! You couldn't write it. Instead of crowdfunding, why don't those who were there give up their pocket money and pay to repair the damage themselves
I think @GretaThunberg should be paying to repair this. It’s her spouting nonsense that caused it.
They cry about climate change and destroy the grass that they are so supposed to defending!! Isn’t it Ironic???
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
