

** It's Getting Hot in Here: Earth Endured Warmest September on ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/environment/201910041076966880-its-getting-hot-in-here-earth-endured-warmest-september-on-record-in-2019---study/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Last month was the warmest September on record, “virtually on a par with September 2016,” according to the Copernicus Climate Change Service, which is part of the European Union’s Earth Observation Programme.

A report released Friday by Copernicus found that September was 0.57 degrees Celsius warmer than the 1981-2010 average. In addition, the temperatures across most of Europe were above average, particularly in the south and south-east of the continent. 
Much of Norway and Sweden experienced below-average temperatures. Meanwhile, temperatures over most of the US, parts of the Arctic and Iran, Afghanistan, Mongolia, northern China, central South America, South Africa, south-western Australia and West Antarctica were all above the 1981-2010 average. 
“Temperatures over land were notably below average only over south-western Russia, the Central Asian Republics and parts of Antarctica, although several other regions experienced temperatures that were slightly below average for the month,” the report adds.
And September was not an anomaly.
June and July this year were the warmest ever in recorded history, while 2019’s August was the second-hottest August ever recorded. 
Copernicus Climate Change Service Director Jean-Noel Thepaut painted a bleak picture of the future, as greenhouse gas emissions continue to plague the environment.
"The recent series of record-breaking temperatures is an alarming reminder of the long-term warming trend that can be observed on a global level," Thepaut said in a statement to AFP.
"With continued greenhouse gas emissions and the resulting impact on global temperatures, records will continue to be broken in the future," he added. 
A September report by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) revealed that the Northern Hemisphere experienced its hottest summer on record between June and August this year. The report also noted that the global average sea surface temperature in August was 1.51 degrees Fahrenheit higher than the “20th-century monthly average of 61.4 degrees Fahrenheit,” marking the highest sea surface temperature ever recorded in the month of August. Arctic sea ice coverage in August was also found to be 30.1% lower than average.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
