

** Joaquin Phoenix and Martin Sheen Arrested at Climate Change ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/art_living/202001111078005719-joaquin-phoenix-and-martin-sheen-arrested-at-climate-change-protest-at-capitol-hill/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Phoenix and Martin Sheen were attending Jane Fonda's weekly climate change protest, which has been held since October, along with other celebrities, including  Susan Sarandon, Amber Valletta, and June Diane Raphael.
Actors Joaquin Phoenix and Martin Sheen have been arrested at Jane Fonda's weekly environmental protest on Capitol Hill, NBC News reported on Friday.
According to the outlet, the Hollywood climate activists failed to follow a police order to disperse.
#PHOTO | Joaquin Phoenix being led away by police at today’s @FireDrillFriday climate change protest pic.twitter.com/EGBF5ieMX6
During his speech at Capitol Hill, Phoenix called on the public to opt out of meat and milk products due to their "harm to the environment". The actor, however, sadly confessed that he could not avoid travelling by plane.
Doubts are often cast on the sincerity of celebrity pledges to combat climate change, as some question their environmental footprint given their wealth and lifestyle.
The "climate emergency" itself is a very disputable matter, since a lot of scientists doubt that reducing carbon dioxide emissions, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, would actually prevent the world from becoming warmer.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
