

** Video: Climate Activists Shut Down Harvard-Yale Football Game ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/us/201911231077386262-climate-activists-shut-down-harvard-yale-football-game-over-fossil-fuel-divestment/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Dozens of people stormed the field during the halftime break at Saturday's annual football game between Harvard and Yale. Police first engaged in negotiations with the protesters, but later arrested the climate activists who reportedly indicated to law enforcement that they "want to be arrested."
On Saturday, students said to be from both Harvard and Yale universities staged a sit-in protest during the halftime break in the football game between the two high-profile schools, demanding that the two educational institutions change their investment strategy.
BREAKING: Over 150 Yale + Harvard students, alumni, faculty stormed the field at #HarvardYale to demand DIVESTMENT from fossil fuels & cancel holdings in Puerto Rican debt. When it comes to the status quo, #NobodyWins. @YaleEJC @FossilFreeYale @DivestHarvard pic.twitter.com/lZAcAxxmYw
The protesters reportedly stormed the field just before the start of the third quarter, filling the midfield area and disrupting the game for some 40 minutes.
Harvard and Yale activists are demanding that the administrations of their universities stop "investing in injustice," and divest their school endowments from fossil-fuel profits.
Yale and Harvard students have disrupted today's football game. They are demanding their universities divest from fossil fuels & cancel their Puerto Rican debt holdings pic.twitter.com/DwJRyyzeq5
Students from both Yale and Harvard came together to protest #climatechange and it was honestly the best part of the entire game. pic.twitter.com/mogk4APn68
Hundreds of Yale and Harvard students held up the football game for about a half hour to protest university holdings in fossil fuel companies and Puerto Rican debt pic.twitter.com/aX7tOOo1r4
The sit-in ended after negotiations between the police and students resulted in arrests reportedly conducted following the expression of a desire by the activists to be arrested.
Harvard-Yale update: The protestors have told police they want to be arrested. So police have tied them together, two at a time, and are taking them off the field. Kickoff in about 10-mins.
Following the disrupted game, a Yale statement noted that although the university "stands for the right to free expression", the school regretted the students' choice of time and place for their action.
Yale has also expressed its gratitute to "the staff members and police officers who ensured the peaceful departure of students from the field", noting that "The exercise of free expression on campus is subject to general conditions, and we do not allow disruption of university events."
The sit-in, however, was praised by many climate activists in the Internet, with some politicians, particularly in the Democratic party, highlighting the significance of widespread climate activism. Among the latter were Rep. Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez, and US presidential hopefuls Julian Castro and Bernie Sanders.
Activism disrupts the present to change the future. 🌎 https://t.co/K4OLyeATMu
From the March for Our Lives, to worldwide Climate Strikes, students and young people are leading the charge to protect their futures. I’m inspired by their efforts to hold their universities to a higher standard. https://t.co/tbskzCRvSa
When people come together to stand up for justice, we win. Congratulations to the young people demanding a sustainable future for our planet. We are with you in this fight. https://t.co/l86n85UIcy
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
