

** Turning From Meat Consumption to Veganism Cannot Solve ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/environment/201912011077455590-turning-from-meat-consumption-to-veganism-cannot-solve-climate-change-researchers-warn/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
United Nations experts have recently argued that the high consumption of meat and dairy products is fuelling global warming. However, the assumption that going vegan could potentially help reduce environmental problems is not shared by all experts in the field.  
Researchers from the University of Edinburgh and Scotland’s Rural College said that a reduction in the consumption of meat would not necessarily help the environment, while pointing at the importance of livestock production, The Telegraph reports.
Speaking at a recent panel on the future of meat production, the UK’s leading experts on animal and agricultural food science, including University of Edinburgh Professor Geoff Simm and Scotland’s Rural College Professor Mike Coffey, said that the livestock sector has recently been intensively demonised, despite being crucial for global development. They also point out that recent studies have not proved that shifting to a vegan or vegetarian diet would help tackle environmental issues globally.
“Meat has massive social benefits”, the expert added. “It’s an important source of dietary protein, energy, highly bioavailable micronutrients, even small amounts of animal-sourced food have a really important effect on the development of children, in the developing world on their cognitive and physical development and they are really important”.
Recent research prepared by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change indicated that increased reliance on meat and dairy products tend to contribute to global warming through ineffective use of land, calling for a reduction in meat consumption. These findings are not supported by the UK experts, though, with Professor Mike Coffey insisting that veganism is not an answer to tackling climate change.
In the meantime, new breeds of eco-friendly cattle are expected to soon emerge in the UK livestock sector and potentially in the world. These selected breeds will potentially grow faster and consume less food, thus reducing the amount of methane released into the atmosphere.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
