

** Indonesia's Glaciers 'in Danger of Disappearing' Completely Within ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/environment/201912131077570590-indonesias-glaciers-in-danger-of-disappearing-completely-within-a-decade/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
A new study published on Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences reveals that Indonesia’s glaciers on a mountain range in the country’s Papua region are expected to melt and disappear within a decade.

“The glaciers near Puncak Jaya, Papua, Indonesia, the last tropical glaciers in the Western Pacific Warm Pool, have recently undergone a rapid pace of loss of ice cover and a 5.4-fold increase in the rate of thinning,” the report explains.
“They are the ‘canaries in the coal mine,’” she noted.
Donaldi Permana, another author on the study, noted how the melting of tropical glaciers is a direct reflection of rising temperatures due to global warming.
“Tropical glaciers are mostly smaller, and so their response time to variations in climate change is faster compared to larger glaciers and ice sheets,” Permana explained. In fact, Papua’s glaciers are believed to have diminished by around 85% during the last few decades, AFP reported.
According to the researchers, the melting of Indonesia’s glaciers have been accelerated by the El Niño phenomenon. The US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration refers to the phenomenon as “large-scale ocean-atmosphere climate interaction linked to a periodic warming in sea surface temperatures across the central and east-central Equatorial Pacific.”
The glaciers have cultural and sacred significance to some indigenous Papuans. 
Glacier loss is becoming a more frequent occurrence around the world as global temperatures continue to increase.
In August, people gathered in Borgarfjörður, Iceland, a fjord in the west of the island nation near the town of Borgarnes, to mourn the loss of Okjokull, an Icelandic ice mass no longer thick enough to be considered a glacier. The glacier was officially declared dead by glaciologist Oddur Sigurðsson in 2014, when he noticed that its snow and ice were melting faster than the accumulation rate.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
