

** 'Affordability Crisis' Threatens Millions of Americans With Putative ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/analysis/202003281078736824-affordability-crisis-threatens-millions-of-americans-with-putative-water-shutoffs-during-pandemic/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Poor water infrastructure in the US could put some marginalized communities at risk, especially amid the coronavirus pandemic, Mary Grant, the director of the Public Water for All Campaign at Food & Water Watch and a policy analyst on US water utility privatization, told Radio Sputnik’s Loud & Clear Friday.

“World Water Day is every year on March 22, and it’s a program of the United Nations,” Grant told host John Kiriakou. “And it’s supposed to celebrate access and promotion of universal access to safe water and sanitation. This year’s theme was water and climate change, how climate change is impacting our water system, but it happened during this global pandemic. So the theme that was taken on was the importance of water, handwashing and sanitation and public health.”
“So, what we see is that in the US, there’s still about 2 million people who lack water, in the US right now. It’s water that’s unsafe. They don’t have indoor plumbing. This is particularly true among the Navajo nation, in indigenous communities, lacking basic infrastructure and indoor plumbing in the US. We also have many communities across the country with unsafe water, water that's contaminated. Health-based contamination of drinking water quality disproportionately impacts rural communities, communities of color and low-income communities in the US. So, across the country, people are struggling with basic access to safe water,” Grant said. 
“On top of all of this, our water systems are aging. They’re reaching the end of their youthful lives. We need to spend more than $35 billion a year just to comply with existing federal law in the US. And so, this is putting a huge burden on localities that are passing costs on to their rate payers, and we are seeing water rates go up across the country. They’ve increased by three times the rate of inflation for the past 15 years, and it’s really putting a burden on local households,” Grant told Sputnik.
“Utilities typically use one of two collection methods that are rather punitive. The most common one is the shutoff: we estimate that as many as 15 million Americans experience a water shutoff a year for nonpayment. So, they struggle to pay their basic water bills and to have that basic water access. So, that affordability crisis in particular is getting worse right now,” Grant explained.
The 2017 study also found that if water bills increase at estimated rates over the next five years, “conservative projections estimate that the percentage of U.S. households who will find water bills unaffordable could triple from 11.9% to 35.6%.”
With more than 101,000 confirmed cases of the COVID-19 coronavirus in the US, water shutoffs could pose a great danger to people trying to protect themselves from the disease.
Climate change and water systems are “so inextricably related,” Grant added.
“Climate change is affecting access to water, and water affects climate change too. Water is getting warmer, leading to more contamination. We have more weather events … which causes more runoff, which causes more contamination of water supplies. So, these hydrological systems are so interconnected, you can’t talk about one without talking about the other. And one of the biggest impacts of climate change is going to be on our water systems - access to safe water, access to water at all. We’re seeing scarcity around the world. In the US, it’s in the western states in particular where water scarcity is going to be a big issue. On the East Coast, it’s too much water, causing water runoff and contamination of water supplies,” Grant said.

            
                The views and opinions expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect those of Sputnik.
            
        
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
