

** 'Climate Crisis House of Cards': Users Mock Greta Thunberg's Reply ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/viral/202001071077964103-climate-crisis-house-of-cards-users-mock-greta-thunbergs-reply-to-claim-shes-been-brainwashed/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
American music artist Meat Loaf gave an interview on 1 January where he shared his personal stance on climate change, claiming Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg had been “brainwashed”.
Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg has given a Twitter response to rock icon Meat Loaf's statement that she has been "brainwashed" on climate change, writing on Monday that the environmental issue extends well beyond the two of them.
"It’s not about what some people call me. It’s not about left or right. It’s all about scientific facts. And that we’re not aware of the situation. Unless we start to focus everything on this, our targets will soon be out of reach," Thunberg tweeted, adding a Carbon Brief fact-checking spreadsheet.
It’s not about Meatloaf.It’s not about me.It’s not about what some people call me.It’s not about left or right.It’s all about scientific facts.And that we’re not aware of the situation.Unless we start to focus everything on this, our targets will soon be out of reach. https://t.co/UwyoSnLiK2
​Earlier, Meat Loaf, 72, told the Daily Mail in an interview on 1 January that he does not believe in climate change, but rather, that he believes Thunberg, 17, has been "brainwashed."
Some netizens sprang to the climate activist’s defence.
I kind of understand why @GretaThunberg keeps being the target of so much online bullying... she's speaking the truth
She is seen by fossil fuel billionaires as a threat to their self-enrichment, and they react by bankrolling attacks on climate science and activists like Greta.
She is a very brave young woman taking in the establishment! Big government deniers! Greta is a positive role model for us all! 🇨🇦
​Others on social media quoted Greta Thunberg’s own words back at her, stating that, indeed, it was all about “scientific facts”.
You are correct. It *is* all about scientific facts.Here are three very important ones:1. CO2 is *not* the climate control knob.2. The weather is *not* getting worse.3. There is no climate crisis.
Study after study shows that weather events are well with in the normal ranges and are historically lowMan made reporting that claims everywhere is getting twice as warm as everywhere else does. It make a crisis
I started out as a casual believer in AGW, then became more & more skeptical as I dug into the alleged evidence for myself. *Many* climate skeptics have followed a similar path. The "climate crisis" house of cards collapses quickly with a little fact-checking. #ClimateTwitter
Greta made it all about her from the very start. There is no climate crisis & there is no scientific proof of a climate crisis. Any belief in a pending extinction/apocalypse is climate change cultism like we see with extinction rebellion. pic.twitter.com/2vsB0BpuDF
​Many social media comments repeated previous words addressed to the climate activist teen to “go back to school”.
So go back to school, instead of traveling all around the world, emitting CO2 and learn about how does the climat works.
A vote for the #climatehoax is a vote against humanity
Greta go back to school honey. The sun dictates weather. Not Co2 that is facts.
When ever I question my path in life - I always look to a highschool drop out funded by Soros to give me advice. .Thanks Greta. Gonna sit alone and shame myself all day now. (Just doing my part! 👍)
@GretaThunberg owes it to the public to comment on the letter to the United Nations from 500 leading scientists stating that there is no climate crisis, arguing it point by point.pic.twitter.com/QWLV6cwyr2
"It’s all about scientific facts."I wish it were true. Sadly, it isn't. Don't worry, though: Everybody is wrong at 17. I was, too.
Teen Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who has argued the case for climate issues since her first strike outside the Swedish parliament in August 2018, was thrown into the spotlight after her impassioned plea for action at the UN General Assembly Climate Action Summit in New York in September 2019.
While Thunburg's activism has earned her accolades among those who believe anthropomorphic climate change, which contributed to her being named Time magazine's Person of the Year for 2019, she has been repeatedly criticised by many high-profile figures, who have deplored her approach as too confrontational, divisive, and at times misinformed.
Still others insist that her notoriety was manufactured by the green movement, and denounced her for doing things such as crossing the ocean in a multi-million dollar zero-emissions yacht, despite the option being effectively out of reach for all but the wealthiest travellers.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
