

** Indians to Join Earth Hour and Switch Off Lights Tonight for 60 ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/india/202003281078737948-indians-to-join-earth-hour-and-switch-off-lights-tonight-for-60-minutes-in-bid-to-save-the-planet/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
New Delhi (Sputnik): Millions of people across the world stuck at home now due to the raging coronavirus will participate in the Earth Hour event on Saturday.
In a bid to draw people’s attention to climate change, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) initiated a symbolic lights-out event in Australia called the #EarthHour in 2007.
Over a decade later, Earth Hour has become one of the world’s largest grassroots movements focused on saving the environment, celebrated every year on 28 March.
On Saturday, Indians also began pledging their support for the #EarthHour movement, which now comprises 180 countries.
Indian skipper Virat Kohli along with others appealed to fellow countrymen to participate and turn off all unnecessary lights between 8:30 and 9:30 p.m.
Take a pledge with @imVkohliand quest towards making the planet a healthier place to live.This Earth Hour, switch off the lights from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm on 28 March, 2020 while you’re inside your home.#EarthHour #StayHomeStaySafe #IndiaFightsCorona #SocialDistancing pic.twitter.com/NDagvAEKDz
This Earth Hour, give up going out and be the voice for the planet and join people around the world in switching off all unnecessary and non-essential lights from 8:30 PM to 9:30 PM. For more information, check out https://t.co/jL2SxA75KR. #SwitchOff #StayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/TQQ1WLjPUV
A simple gesture goes a long way. Switch off your lights tonight from 8:30 to 9:30 PM to join the movement, and may you Find Happiness in the darkest hour. #EarthHour #Imfree pic.twitter.com/bjj48w3DMg
This is your home 🌎it is beautiful, even from outer space 🌌This #EarthHour join millions of people around the world in switching off all inessential lights💡today at 8.30pm (your local time) Let's come together as we're all in the same boat/spaceship 🚀 #LoveYourHome @Orsted pic.twitter.com/4teEqvPQNq
​In its fight against global warming, India is working briskly towards developing and adopting renewable energy sources like solar, wind, and water power  to mitigate pollution and environmental damage.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
