

** Geopolitics, Technology and Climate Change: What to Expect from ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/world/202001231078109915-geopolitics-technology-climate-change-day-3-davos-forum/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
As the third day of the 50th Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum kicked off in the Swiss resort village of Davos, more than 3,000 high-ranking officials are about to discuss a range of topics, prioritizing economic, geopolitical and environmental challenges.
The third day of the Davos forum will include special addresses from a number of high-profile speakers, including Angela Merkel, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Giuseppe Conte, Prime Minister of Italy, and Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister of Greece, will also be holding a separate Q and A event, and Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President of the Republic of Ghana, will be holding a press conference.
Another address will be delivered by Juan Guaidó, who came to Davos despite the travel ban imposed by President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro. Guaidó had illegally declared himself interim president of Venezuela almost a year ago, sparking a political crisis in the country.
The United States, followed by several European and Latin American countries, has supported Guaido while other countries including Russia, China, Cuba, and Turkey, have insisted that Maduro is the only legitimate president of Venezuela. 
Another key topic to be discussed will be Brexit: risks of an economic recession, navigating Brexit, trade uncertainty and reforming economic policy measures will be among the topics discussed by European Commissioner for Economy Paolo Gentiloni, Italian Minister of Economy and Finance Roberto Gualtieri, DHL Group CEO Frank Appel and Deutsche Bank CEO Christian Sewing.

                        ©
                    REUTERS / DENIS BALIBOUSE'Why Are You There, Princess?': Ivanka Trump Bashed Online Over Her Actions at Davos ForumThe schedule also includes two agenda-setting meetings: “The strategic priorities for Saudi Arabia's G20 presidency in 2020” and “The Future of NATO.” The first one will include speakers from Saudi Arabia, including Minister of Energy Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, as well as Børge Brende, the President of the World Economic Forum.
The NATO meeting will feature NATO’s Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, Turkey’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu, President of Poland Andrzej Duda and Italy’s Minister for European Affairs Vincenzo Amendola.
Several meetings will be dedicated to the fourth industrial revolution and the use of technology in the modern age: Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is going to hold a conversation on unlocking inclusive economic growth and equitable globalization through technological progress, while Maxim Oreshkin, who was recently replaced as Minister for Economic Development during the shift of the Russian government on January 15, will be among speakers during the “Russian National AI Strategy and the Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution.” Oreshkin will also be the key speaker during a talk on the global impact of EU-Russia relations.
And last, but not least, climate change resumes being among the most discussed topics. A carbon-neutral future, climate risks, effective management of ocean protection and environmentally friendly tourism will be among the priorities discussed by the world leaders.
The talk entitled “The Disposable Society,” addressing how businesses, industries and civil society can reorient economic incentives to shift to a circular economy and generate less garbage will conclude the third day of the World Economic Forum.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
