

** UK Space Aspirations Challenged by 12-Year-Old Environmental ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/uk/202003101078531311-uk-space-aspirations-challenged-by-12-year-old-environmental-activist-britains-greta-thunberg/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
The UK Space Agency has selected Sutherland, on the Moine Peninsula of Scotland's north coast, as the location of Britain's first-ever domestic spaceport. The launch facility would reportedly be developed by US aerospace and defence giant Lockheed Martin.
The site is projected to launch satellites and space vehicles, boosting Scotland's already rapidly growing satellite industry. According to The Daily Mail, it is said that the United Kingdom expects to put some 2,000 satellites into Earth orbit by 2030.
But Britain's aspirations have been challenged by an unexpected obstacle. A 12-year-old boy, Finlay Pringle, a UK-based climate change activist from Scotland, has firmly objected to the construction of a UK spaceport.
Pringle, reportedly dubbed Scotland's leading young environmentalist and 'Britain's Greta Thunberg', lodged a formal protest over the construction of an enormous spaceport in the southeast of Tongue, in the far north of Scotland, asserting that the launchpad would be located close to Europe's largest peat bog and a possible UNESCO world heritage site, The Daily Mail said.
According to research quoted by the activist, the spaceport will annually release up to 950 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere.
The owner of the site in Sutherland, Melness Crofters Estate (MCE), has argued that the local community is looking for a balance between protection of the environment and development of local infrastructure.

                        ©
                    Flickr / Cory DoctorowEyes In The Sky: Britain's GCHQ Sets Sights on SpaceAccording to the owner of the site, activists running a "sustained, vociferous campaign" had "misrepresented" the spaceport and the intentions of the MCE. The media report suggested that the MCE could fund local community from space facility income. The enormous launch site would include a launch control centre, a single launch pad and associated infrastructure, including roadways, fuel storage, office premises, and antennas.
Pringle reportedly pointed out that one of the main environmental objections to the site's location is the expected impact on the peat bogs - partly due to their unique habitat, and also as they are a "vital carbon sink". According to the media report, Pringle seeks to have those key points made more widely known.
"We need people in authority to take the climate and ecological breakdowns seriously, refusing planning for this project would be a good start and signal the council is prepared to take positive action on climate change" Pringle said.
According to local media reports, Pringle has been praised for his environmental activism by Greta Thunberg.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
