

** OKCupid Introduces Feature Allowing User to Filter Out Climate ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/business/202002201078362592-okcupid-introduces-feature-allowing-user-to-filter-out-climate-change-deniers-activists-/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Online dating platform OkCupid has caught the attention of those on both sides of the climate change debate after recently announcing that its website’s filter now has an option associated with the heated issue. 
OkCupid announced last month that it would be rolling out a new filter category, allowing users to narrow their search results down to potential mates who hold similar views concerning the subject of climate change.
On our app you can filter out anybody who thinks climate change is Fake News.
While climate change has become a topic of international urgency, the internet, naturally, is not able to come to consensus on the matter, and that divide was well represented in the responses to OkCupid’s announcement.
Can I get reverse filter with same criteria? I want to meet non-brainwashed people!
You’re so woke for rejecting thousands of scientists who spend their lives studying our world and letting us know what’s up. Lol #FakeNews amirite
Brilliant. Can you also remove these people from the app entirely? The stupidity and ignorance among these people present a fundamental risk to the world and they should not procreate.
It's almost like the science... Got better? No way, science couldn't get better in 40 years.
You do realize there's nothing anyone can do about it. There's this gigantic orb in the center of the solar system that it primarily affects the planets temperature. Humans have this overwhelming need to feel important. Newsflash, you're not.
There are a loooot of people not gettin laid and angry in these comments lmfao
when did ok cupid become the thought police?
The incels are angry in the replies pic.twitter.com/a8yXGtapFo
https://t.co/7qKv1gAFyX
Interestingly enough, the release of the research report coincided with a number of promoted tweets purchased by OkCupid on Twitter - as some users pointed out.
Bruh, this is the 3rd promoted tweet from you guys just from tonight. pic.twitter.com/iEcrAbx1d6
The online dating platform recently decided to poke the bear once again around Valentine’s Day by making its own position on climate change very clear.
Valentine card idea: “Like climate change, my love for you is very real.”
Additionally, the site has seen a 240% uptick in mentions of the topic on users’ profiles in the past year. Kaye specifically noted that there was an increase in terms such as “climate change,” “environment,” “Greta Thunberg,” and “recycle,” being used on user profiles when compared to past data.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
