

** Greta Thunberg Admits Her Climate Change Campaign 'Achieved ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/society/201912071077510555-greta-thunberg-admits-her-climate-change-campaign-achieved-nothing/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
While in Madrid, on her way back from the US where she had campaigned and made fiery speeches over these past three months, eco-activist Greta Thunberg called for more activists to join their ranks citing the lack of productivity of today’s rallies.
The global wave of school strikes for the climate over the past year has “achieved nothing” as greenhouse gas emissions have continued to rise, Greta Thunberg has told activists at UN climate talks in Madrid.
“Some people are afraid to change – they try so desperately to silence us".
Over the past four years, since the landmark Paris Accord on climate change and carbon footprints was signed, greenhouse gas emissions have risen by at least 4%, according to statistics outlined in the Global Carbon Project.
Speaking at a press conference before the scheduled march was to sweep across downtown Madrid, Thunberg lamented that international schoolchildren’s campaigning inspired by her solo protest in Sweden in 2017, “has not translated into action” by governments.
Thunberg said she had been pinning her hopes on the UN negotiations, expressing doubt if governments around the world had grasped the idea behind her and her team’s protests and warning that inaction could be damaging.
Heartily welcoming climate crisis awareness, Thunberg contended:
“We can’t go on like this; it is not sustainable that children skip school and we don’t want to continue – we would love some action from the people in power. People are suffering and dying today. We can’t wait any longer", she said.
Swedish teen eco-activist Greta Thunberg is among the four recipients of this year's Right Livelihood Award, also known as the "alternative Nobel Prize" for human rights.
The teen has become the face of a youth environmental action inspired by her skipping classes every Friday to protest in front of the Swedish parliament building for more effective environmental legislation.
Thunberg now in Madrid, having toured North America for nearly three months, led climate strikes as well as spoke at a United Nations climate action summit. She travelled there on a low carbon footprint boat, which she also used for a return trip, having to skip the "alternative Nobel Prize"  ceremony.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
