

** Greta Thunberg Left Wrong-Boated After Crunch UN Climate ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/world/201911021077208996-greta-thunberg-left-wrong-boated-after-crunch-un-climate-summit-moves-to-another-continent/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Swedish eco-warrior Greta Thunberg crossed the Atlantic in the summer to speak to world leaders ahead of the UN General Assembly meeting. She had expected to stay in the Americas for another month to attend another important climate change summit in Chile, but there has been a sudden change of schedule.
Greta Thunberg is never in a flying mood, but recent developments in Chile might force her to reconsider her attitude to aircraft.
The 16-year-old activist – whose climate expertise remains a source of debate – made a 15-day voyage across the Atlantic this August. She has since addressed world leaders at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York and joined climate strikes in Canada, and is currently rallying young people in wildfire-hit California against the “failing older generations” of decision-makers.
Greta’s initial plan was to visit South and Central America and wrap up her journey to the New World with an address to the UN COP25 climate conference, slated for early December. However, mass anti-government protests prompted Santiago to pull out as host this week. The event – billed as the world’s most important conference on climate change – has been relocated to Spain.
The news has seemingly caught Greta off-guard. “As #COP25 has officially been moved from Santiago to Madrid I’ll need some help,” she tweeted on Friday. “It turns out I’ve traveled half around the world, the wrong way. Now I need to find a way to cross the Atlantic in November... If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful.”
As #COP25 has officially been moved from Santiago to Madrid I’ll need some help.It turns out I’ve traveled half around the world, the wrong way:)Now I need to find a way to cross the Atlantic in November... If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful.-> https://t.co/vFQQcLTh2U
Greta now has precisely 30 days to make it to Madrid, where the summit kicks off on 2 December. The task is all the more pressing because the team that accompanied her on the way to New York on board a zero-emission sailboat has already returned to Europe and is currently taking part in a trans-Atlantic yachting race.
Fellow sailor Pierre Casiraghi told the New York Times in a July interview that there are “only a handful” of zero-emissions vessels like the one that ferried Greta, which means that she will have to choose from a limited number of options.
And as if that wasn’t difficult enough of a task, it will take her at least three days to return to the US east coast by train from California.
She added: “I’m so sorry I’ll not be able to visit South and Central America this time, I was so looking forward to this. But this is of course not about me, my experiences or where I wish to travel.”
I’m so sorry I’ll not be able to visit South and Central America this time, I was so looking forward to this. But this is of course not about me, my experiences or where I wish to travel. We’re in a climate and ecological emergency. I send my support to the people in Chile.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
