

** Climate Activists Block Roads in Amsterdam as Part of 'International ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/europe/201910071076978196-climate-activists-block-roads-in-amsterdam-as-part-of-international-rebellion---video/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
MOSCOW (Sputnik) - Activists of international climate movement Extinction Rebellion blocked roads in the centre of Amsterdam on Monday morning as part of the global campaign to raise awareness about what they describe as a climate catastrophe.
At photos posted by Extinction Rebellion on social media, hundreds of protesters are seen demanding stronger measures to fight climate change in front of the Rijksmuseum.
"Tell the truth! Wees eerlijk [Be Honest in English]! Blockade #ExtinctionRebellion in Amsterdam is a fact! We are here to stay to #RebelForLife," the movement tweeted.
Are we gonna fight for it? Yes! Are we gonna get it? Yes! #ClimateJustice #RebelWithoutBorders #ExtinctionRebellion Amsterdam rocks. #RebelForLife #ClimateCrisis pic.twitter.com/uZRn2FQfId
​The action takes place despite the ban of the city hall, which offered protesters to gather in a park nearby.
"The oceans are rising and so are we."Extinction Rebellion launch their indefinite blockade outside the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam as part of the International Rebellion Week. Until they are moved or their demands are met.Witnessed one arrest already. Activists prepared for more. pic.twitter.com/fK7txqURxn
​Police, via loudspeakers, seek to convince the crow to leave the street and move to the location authorized by the city authorities.
For months, climate alarmism has been sweeping the world, with the youth regularly demonstrating in all the large capitals in the West but also Asia to demand urgent climate action from governments.
Often, such protests, accompanied by road blockades and even vandalism, end up with detentions.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
