

** Greta Thunberg: I Wouldn't Have Wasted My Time Speaking to ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/world/201912301077902636-greta-thunberg-i-wouldnt-have-wasted-my-time-speaking-to-donald-trump/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
The 16-year-old eco-warrior has managed to galvanise many contemporaries but faced criticism from some high-profile politicians after she accused them of not doing enough to tackle climate change.
Greta Thunberg has continued her beef with Donald Trump, saying she wouldn’t speak to him if given an opportunity.
“So I probably wouldn’t have said anything, I wouldn't have wasted my time".
Donald Trump, an established climate change skeptic who has pulled out of the 2015 Paris Agreement and relaxed or rolled back dozens of Obama-era environmental rules, has attacked Thunberg more than once in the past few months.
Earlier in December, for instance, he suggested that she “work on her anger management problem”, while in September he mocked her impassioned speech at a UN climate change summit in New York.
Greta Thunberg, with her dire predictions about the environment and her aggressive campaigning for more action on climate change, has divided opinions worldwide. While thousands of young people across the globe heeded her call and joined Friday school strikes, some politicians have been skeptical about her agenda.
Brazil’s President Bolsonaro, another outspoken climate change skeptic, has referred to Thunberg as a “brat” and complained she receives too much press, while Australian Prime Minister Morrison shot back that he was “not here to impress people overseas” after the girl called on his government to take more action on environmental protection.
“Those attacks are just funny because they obviously don't mean anything", Thunberg told the BBC. “I guess of course it means something – they are terrified of young people bringing change which they don't want – but that is just proof that we are actually doing something and that they see us as some kind of threat".
Her father, Svante Thunberg, who also took part in the broadcast, recounted how Greta was fighting with mental issues prior to leading her youth climate strikes.
He said that he felt it was “a bad idea” for Greta to engage in campaigning, but said that she handles the criticism “incredibly well”.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
