

** 'We Don't Need Foreigners': Greta Thunberg Mural Defaced in ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/world/201910221077112573-we-dont-need-foreigners-greta-thunberg-mural-defaced-in-canada-in-protest-of-anti-oil-rhetoric/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
The graffiti artwork was repeatedly painted over during the weekend, as Alberta residents say the climate activist does not offer working solutions in her climate speeches.
A Canadian mural depicting Greta Thunberg was defaced repeatedly over the weekend by those protesting the anti-fossil fuel narrative promoted by the teenage climate activist.
Initially, the mural was spray-painted over with a protest message on Friday.
A CBC journalist, who claimed to have just happened to be at the scene at the time of the incident interviewed the protester, who disclosed that his late father was an oil worker and that he would be “disgusted” to see the mural depicting Thunberg.
The spray painter, who identified himself as James Bagnell, suggested that Thunberg should begin with her home country before embarking on a world tour.
New Greta Thunberg mural in Edmonton, Canada painted Friday for her visit, defaced by Saturday & obliterated by Sunday. Artist: "Nothing lasts forever. One of my favourite things a/b that wall is that anyone is allowed 2 express themselves there, so I'm not upset @ all" pic.twitter.com/Yt1C8skWqD
​Later that weekend, another person again spray-painted the mural, blackening out Thunberg’s eyes.
On Friday, Thunberg gave a speech in Alberta, which was met with counter-protests, as people blamed the climate activist for not proposing real-world solutions.
Bagnell stated that Thunberg should offer solutions or “shut up,” according to the report.
The artist behind the original mural, AJA Louden, said he was not upset because of the spray-painting action, saying the artwork was made on a “free wall,” and anyone can paint whatever they want. 
He suggested that people who are “upset” by the painting being damaged should “paint back over it.”
Greta Thunberg initially came into the spotlight after her standing protest on the steps of the Swedish parliament in Stockholm in 2018. This year, she became a world famous after delivering a strikingly aggressive speech on climate change before world leaders at the UN General Assembly.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
