

** Fatboy Slim Says He Almost Cried Hearing Remix of His Song ... **

* https://sputniknews.com/society/201912311077907372-fatboy-slim-says-he-almost-cried-hearing-remix-of-his-song-featuring-greta-thunbergs-speech-at-un/ *

To improve the performance of our website, show the most relevant news products and targeted advertising, we collect technical impersonal information about you, including through the tools of our partners. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy. For a detailed description of the technologies, please see the Cookie and Automatic Logging Policy.
By clicking on the "Accept & Close" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your data to achieve the above goal.
You can withdraw your consent using the method specified in the Privacy Policy.
Greta Thunberg’s speech at the UN climate summit drew mixed feelings with the 16 year-old being praised for her bold statements by supporters and environmentalists and criticised by officials and presidents. 
British DJ and musician Fatboy Slim has confessed he “nearly burst into tears” when he played a remix of his old hit "Right Here, Right Now", featuring excerpts of Greta Thunberg’s speech at the United Nations. In an interview with the newspaper WAtoday, the artist said climate change is something that he passionately believes in.
"It was just so powerful and emotive that someone had linked a record I’d done 20 years ago to something now, and something I passionately believe in", said Fatboy Slim, also known as Norman Cook. "I like that it kind of sticks it to people who don’t believe in climate change, or find Greta Thunberg annoying, it’s quite a defiant move for me as well. If you stick around long enough things come around again, and a whole new meaning has come into Right Here, Right Now".
https://t.co/I5FUG69NXC
​Climate activist Greta Thunberg used the call action “right here, right now” in her speech at the UN climate summit this year. The 16-year-old accused world leaders of robbing her of her childhood, apparently referring to her decision to quit school and start campaigning for climate action. Addressing the audience at the summit Thunberg said:
"People are suffering. People are dying. Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass extinction and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?"
Her passionate speech was praised by supporters, but world leaders were less enthusiastic about it. In particular, French President Emmanuel Macron criticised the young activist for her radical position, while Russian President Vladimir Putin called Thunberg a kind and sincere girl, but stressed that she does not understand the intricacies of the world.
By clicking the "Post" button, you provide your explicit consent to the processing of your Facebook account data to enable you to comment to the news on our website using this account. You can find a detailed description of how we use your data in our Privacy Policy.
You can withdraw your consent by deleting all your posted comments.
We are committed to protecting your personal information and we have updated our Privacy Policy to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new EU regulation that went into effect on May 25, 2018.
Please review our Privacy Policy. It contains details about the types of data we collect, how we use it, and your data protection rights.
Since you already shared your personal data with us when you created your personal account, to continue using it, please check the box below:
If you do not want us to continue processing your data, please click here to delete your account.
If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy, please contact us at: privacy@sputniknews.com.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
A user comment will be deleted if it:
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
The letter must contain:
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.
To contact the team of moderators, write to moderator@sputniknews.com
Get push notifications from Sputnik International
