

** Is climate change the burning issue in Australia? | Climate Change ... **

* https://www.aljazeera.com/programmes/insidestory/2019/12/climate-change-burning-issue-australia-191220184014630.html *

Most Searched
Inside Story20 Dec 2019 19:18 GMT Australia, Climate Change, Global Warming, Weather, Environment
Bushfires are common during the summer in Australia, but firefighters said this year's conditions are catastrophic.
At least eight people have been killed since September, including two firefighters who died on Thursday when their truck was hit by a falling tree.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison cut short his holiday to Hawaii and issued a rare public apology in response to mounting anger.
Australia's not alone in having to deal with ferocious fires this year. There were more than 1,600 recorded in Europe, large parts of the Amazon rainforest have been destroyed, and tens of thousands of hectares of land and hundreds of buildings in California.
And we've seen wildfires in the Arctic, too - more than 100 - a sign of warming conditions in one of the coldest places on Earth.
Is the political will there to tackle the problem?
Presenter: Folly Bah Thibault
Guests:
Peter Newman - Professor of sustainability at Curtin University
Martin Wooster - Professor and chairman of Earth observation science at King's College London
Emmanuel Raju - Associate professor of disaster risk management at the University of Copenhagen
Source: Al Jazeera News

      Commenting has been disabled. To find out more, click      
      here.
     
A photojournalist travels across the country in a motorhome to document how curfews and quarantines have changed it.
Coronavirus pandemic, Romania, Health
Clinton Kanu spent 27 years in prison for a murder he did not commit, but life on the outside feels far from free.
Prison, Nigeria, Law
You must forget all you thought you knew about grief when the landscape of your life has been demolished.
Family, United States, Health
Kenya banned FGM in 2011, but Europeans still bring their daughters to underground clinics there to be cut.
Human Rights, Health, Child rights
Number of deaths increase in France but slightly fewer people were admitted into intensive care for fourth day in a row.
Coronavirus pandemic, Health, United States, Europe, Africa
African envoys lodge complaint with Beijing over 'discrimination and stigmatisation' against African nationals in China.
Coronavirus pandemic, China, Africa
We explore life under lockdown as Beijing employs increasingly
stringent measures to contain the coronavirus epidemic.
Coronavirus pandemic, China, Health
A Viking enthusiast confronts a neo-Nazi leader for misappropriating Viking symbols for white supremacist propaganda.
Sweden, The Far Right, Racism
The lack of a national paid family and medical leave policy has consequences for millions of workers in the US.
United States, Health, Coronavirus pandemic
101 East examines why more people are withdrawing from society in Japan.
Japan, Asia Pacific, Arts & Culture

 

			© 2020 Al Jazeera Media Network

					© 2020 Al Jazeera Media Network

	 
