

** Are we ignoring warnings on climate change? | Climate Change | Al ... **

* https://www.aljazeera.com/programmes/insidestory/2020/01/ignoring-warnings-climate-change-200114175030678.html *

Most Searched
14 Jan 2020 19:09 GMT Global Warming, Climate Change, Carbon 
Our oceans are heating up quickly.
In 2019, sea temperatures were the highest on record, about 0.075C above the 1981-2010 average.
Warmer seas mean more intense storms, droughts, floods and wildfires.
Oceans are the clearest measure of climate change since they absorb 90 percent of the world's heat.
The study is the latest warning on the climate crisis facing our planet.
However, greenhouse gas emissions are still at record levels.
Are we starting to tune out to the constant stream of bad news on the climate? If so, how should we change the conversation?
Presenter: Martine Dennis
Guests:
Anto Mohsin - Assistant professor at Northwestern University in Qatar who researches energy and the environment
Heike Vesper - Director of marine programmes at the World Wildlife Fund
Cornelia Meyer - Energy economist and CEO of Meyer Resources
Source: Al Jazeera News

      Commenting has been disabled. To find out more, click      
      here.
     
A photojournalist travels across the country in a motorhome to document how curfews and quarantines have changed it.
Coronavirus pandemic, Romania, Health
Clinton Kanu spent 27 years in prison for a murder he did not commit, but life on the outside feels far from free.
Prison, Nigeria, Law
You must forget all you thought you knew about grief when the landscape of your life has been demolished.
Family, United States, Health
Kenya banned FGM in 2011, but Europeans still bring their daughters to underground clinics there to be cut.
Human Rights, Health, Child rights
Number of deaths increase in France but slightly fewer people were admitted into intensive care for fourth day in a row.
Coronavirus pandemic, Health, United States, Europe, Africa
African envoys lodge complaint with Beijing over 'discrimination and stigmatisation' against African nationals in China.
Coronavirus pandemic, China, Africa
We explore life under lockdown as Beijing employs increasingly
stringent measures to contain the coronavirus epidemic.
Coronavirus pandemic, China, Health
A Viking enthusiast confronts a neo-Nazi leader for misappropriating Viking symbols for white supremacist propaganda.
Sweden, The Far Right, Racism
The lack of a national paid family and medical leave policy has consequences for millions of workers in the US.
United States, Health, Coronavirus pandemic
101 East examines why more people are withdrawing from society in Japan.
Japan, Asia Pacific, Arts & Culture

 

			© 2020 Al Jazeera Media Network

					© 2020 Al Jazeera Media Network

	 
