

** Is Climate Change Causing Sharks To Bite Humans? Metro Thinks So **

* https://www.npr.org/local/2020/03/12/814899037/is-climate-change-causing-sharks-to-bite-humans-metro-thinks-so *



      Jacob Fenston
    

 From

                Taking public transit reduces greenhouse gas emissions. But does it change shark behavior? Scientists are dubious.
                
                
                    
                    Jacob Fenston/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

Can taking Metro prevent shark bites? That's the contention of an ad in stations and trains throughout the region. It's part of a Metro public relations campaign to highlight the effects of climate change and how taking public transit can help. If you've seen the shark bite ads and wondered about them — you're in good company.
"As someone who studies sharks and shark conservation, and in fact who has been involved in studies of climate change and sharks, this caught my attention," says David Shiffman, a marine conservation biologist. The ad caught his attention, he says, "because it's nonsense."
The ad shows a black shark fin on an orange zig-zag background. It reads: "More CO2 could lead to increased shark bites. Keep the sharks at bay. Take Metro."

                Arctic ice is melting, due to human-caused carbon emissions.
                
                
                    
                    Jacob Fenston/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

Metro's other climate change ads are on pretty solid scientific ground. There's one about arctic ice melting and one about extreme weather — both well known consequences of climate change. Other ads focus on more obscure impacts — how climate change is affecting wine and beer producers. Still, says Shiffman, "The agricultural consequences are fairly well documented and not controversial."

                The agricultural impacts of climate change are well documented.
                
                
                    
                    Jacob Fenston/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

But he kept seeing the shark bite ad on his daily Metro commute and became preoccupied by whether or not there is a connection. Finally he thought, "Maybe I'm crazy and maybe there is a causal link somewhere that I've never heard of."
So Shiffman decided to investigate.
He reached out to about a dozen of what he says are the world's leading experts on how climate change affects marine animals.
"One person told me that I made them spit out their coffee, one person said, 'If I'm being charitable, it's imaginative.'"
Shiffman wrote up his investigation for his blog, Southern Fried Science. He runs through all the possible explanations for how climate change could cause more shark bites, many suggested by his social media followers. Here are a few, which Shiffman says he put in order of most to least ridiculous:
Most absurd: Climate change is causing sea level rise, bringing sharks into our cities and towns.
"No! That's not how sea level rise works," says Shiffman. "Sea level rise is a major problem. It may, in the next few decades, lead to us having to abandon coastal cities."
But that doesn't mean we will be walking around in neck-deep water, fending off sharks. "Before we get to that point, people are going to have to move," says Shiffman.
Still extremely absurd: Sharks will bite us because they can no longer tell the difference between us and their normal prey.
Climate change is causing the oceans' chemistry to change, becoming more acidic, with higher levels of CO2 and less oxygen. Those changes do affect shark behavior and can impact their sense of smell.
"It can make it harder for predators to smell prey, it can make it harder for prey to smell predators," says Shiffman. "But that doesn't mean suddenly we smell like food, it just means it's harder for them to find food."
Most shark bites occur because sharks mistake humans for their usual prey: marine mammals. Humans are not on the menu, and after most bites, sharks do not return for more. "Sharks don't eat humans and changing environmental conditions aren't going to change that," Shiffman writes.
Kinda absurd: Shark habitat ranges are shifting, bringing them closer to humans, thus increasing the chance of shark bites.
This slightly more plausible explanation appears to be loosely based on scientific evidence. But on further inspection, it falls apart.
Chuck Bangley, a researcher at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and one of the experts Shiffman consulted, studied sharks along the coast of North Carolina. He found there was a big increase in the number of bull sharks in 2011 and 2012. When he looked at what environmental factors might be involved, "The water temperature lit right up as being associated with this increase in shark numbers," says Bangley.
So this seems like solid evidence: warmer water equals more sharks, so probably more shark bites, right?
Wrong. For one thing, the sharks were mostly juveniles. "Some all the way down to the size that they're born," says Bangley. (Baby sharks! Probably not biting anyone.)
There's also this inconvenient fact: "An increase in shark activity in one area might actually point to a decrease in shark activity somewhere else," says Bangley.
Moreover, Bangley says, a few more sharks in one place isn't what's scary about his research. Rather it's the big picture — how climate change is already wreaking havoc on ecosystems. Sharks are shifting north, and so are many other creatures, from clams to lobsters.
"Sharks are typically the apex predators in marine ecosystems, so if they're shifting, it means a lot of the rest of the ecosystem has either already shifted or is in the process of shifting with them," Bangley says. "It's already disrupting local economies — tourism, fisheries."

                A shark researcher needs a good shark tie, for special occasions.
                
                
                    
                    Jacob Fenston/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

In the end, David Shiffman came up with two plausible explanations for Metro's shark bite ad — neither of them very satisfying.
First: Warmer weather means more people heading to the beach, leading to a higher chance of shark bites.
Still, he says, getting bitten by a shark is "astronomically unlikely." For example, far more people die from selfie accidents each year than from shark bites. Also, it's kind of unfair to blame sharks for a change caused by human behavior.
The most likely explanation (and the least satisfying), according to Shiffman: The ad is just flat wrong. "One of my good friends was just baffled by how obsessed I became with this ad, and said, quite simply and correctly, 'Metro ads are not peer reviewed.'"
Indeed, Metro seems to concur with this explanation. When I asked for an interview about the ad, a spokesperson wrote in an email, "This is about choosing Metro as a sustainable transportation mode, something that is not in dispute." He went on to write, "It's an ad, not a white paper."
The climate change ad campaign has generally been well-received by environmentalists.
"Metro's ads serve a specific goal — it's to get people thinking about the consequences of their actions and the tie-in between mass transportation and climate change," says Aykut Yilmaz, with the D.C. chapter of the Sierra Club.
But, he says, the biggest thing Metro can do to help the climate is providing the best, most reliable service. He says the transit agency is heading in the right direction, with the latest budget proposals. "They're bringing back late-night service, thinking about reducing costs for using it on the weekends."
And taking Metro is better for the environment, In 2018, the Metro system reduced the region's greenhouse gas emissions, compared to a theoretical Metro-less Washington, by 370,000 metric tons of CO2 — equal to the emissions from using 41 million gallons of gasoline.
Metro riders are helping to slow arctic ice melt and prevent stronger hurricanes. But no, taking Metro won't keep the sharks at bay.
So why was Shiffman so obsessed with this one ad about sharks? Sharks loom large in our popular imagination, and Shiffman says they are frequently misrepresented, and subject to fearmongering. The Metro ad is seen by thousands of people each day — a captive audience in trains and on platforms.
"People's opinions about the world are sometimes shaped by subway ads," says Shiffman. "It matters. It perhaps doesn't matter all that much, but it matters."
He wanted to not only satisfy his own curiosity (no, he's not crazy), but also set the record straight about the link between shark bites and climate change.
"Sharks are some of the most threatened animals in the world, they're some of the most ecologically important animals in the world, and they're some of the most misunderstood animals in the world."
© 2020 WAMU 88.5

WAMU 88.5 values your feedback.
        

                Where some stay-at-home drinkers are taking the opportunity to stock up on alcohol, others are cutting back and moderating their intake.
                
                
                    
                    Doug McSchooler/AP Photo
                    
                
hide caption

April 10, 2020 • Residents who would normally spend their money on a night out with friends are instead stocking up on alcohol to drink at home.

                Wali Johnson standing third from the left in a photo with members of the J&J Monitoring team, which does violence prevention work in Ward 8.
                
                
                    
                    Courtesy of/Wali Johnson
                    
                
hide caption

April 10, 2020 • "If you don't feel that you have anything, then you may resort to doing anything."

                A performance of "Romeo and Juliet" at the Shakespeare Theatre Company in 2016, back when touching was okay.
                
                
                    
                    Scott Suchman/Shakespeare Theatre Company
                    
                
hide caption

April 10, 2020 • The Shakespeare Theatre Company asked people to record their favorite monologues while self-isolating and post them to social media.

                Much of the D.C. region remains shuttered as the area attempts to "flatten the curve" of coronavirus' cases.
                
                
                    
                    Tyrone Turner/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

April 10, 2020 • Here's what's behind the regional rise in cases and how long to prepare for a reality of social distancing.

                If the District doesn't weather the economic fallout of coronavirus, Congress could begin the process of establishing a control board to run the city's spending.
                
                
                    
                    Tyrone Turner/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

April 9, 2020 • The pandemic isn't just bad news for the District's budget. It could threaten the city's autonomy.

                D.C. Public Schools are closed until at least April 24 but Mayor Muriel Bowser says campuses will likely be closed longer.
                
                
                    
                    Tyrone Turner/WAMU
                    
                
hide caption

April 9, 2020 • D.C. Public Schools and many charter schools are closed until at least April 24, but likely longer. Schools in some states, including Virginia, have shuttered for the rest of the academic year.
