

** Fiji stresses importance of global partnership to deal with climate ... **

* http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-11/01/c_138520761.htm *

SUVA, Nov. 1 (Xinhua) -- Global solutions through multilateralism is needed to address climate change due to its nature as a global problem, a Fijian minister said on Friday.
Speaking at the Global Climate Change Alliance Plus (GCCA) - Scaling-up Pacific Adaptation (SUPA) Project workshop in Labasa, capital of Fiji's northern island of Vanua Levu, Fiji's Minister for Agriculture, Rural and Maritime Development, Waterways and Environment Mahendra Reddy said that it is evident that climate change is one of the greatest challenges experienced in the history of humanity.
Fiji has been consistently ranked high in climate change vulnerability, among other countries in the South Pacific region.
"Our reliance on climatic sensitive sectors means it is vital that we enhance the climate resilience of Fiji's economy. The Global Climate Change Alliance Plus - Scaling-up Pacific Adaptation Project does exactly that, via scaling-up of past performing interventions," the minister said.
He said the Scaling up the Soasoa Drainage System for 2050 Project, which is part of the SUPA Project, was linked to meeting national objectives, as the project was aligned to the National Adaptation Plan (NAP) and National Development Plan (NDP).
"The project is a National objective to scale-up efforts to strengthen coastal boundaries of urban centers and rural communities through hybrid or nature-based solutions to risk reduction purposes and to slow the need to relocate communities and infrastructure, while improving and maintaining drainage networks in urban and rural areas as measures to protect against inland floods, considering that drainage defects are the dominant cause of floods," said the minister.
The project also contributes to the rural economy through promoting equal opportunities, access to basic services and building resilient communities and providing a sustainable sugar industry through the provision of proper drainage services.
19th CPC Central Committee concludes fourth plenary session, releases communique
Venues for CIIE almost completed and ready to supply service
Taihang mountains attract visitors as leaves change colors
Multiple fires burning across California
View of Duobu bridge in China's Tibet
Scenery at Guanshan pasture in Baoji, NW China
Night view of National Exhibition and Convention Center (Shanghai)
In pics: West Lake scenic area in Hangzhou
