

** National climate change action plan approved in Lithuania - Xinhua ... **

* http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-12/31/c_138667588.htm *

VILNIUS, Dec. 30 (Xinhua) -- Lithuania's government on Monday approved the updated National Energy and Climate Action Plan for 2021-2030, estimating that the measures involved would require about 14 billion euros of investments.
"The active involvement of business, non-governmental organizations and citizens in the preparation of this plan confirms that the climate change is an issue of concern to the whole society. Lithuania's updated climate change plan is ambitious and should serve as the guidelines for investment in the EU's next financial perspective," Energy Minister Zygimantas Vaiciunas was quoted as saying in a statement released by his ministry.
The plan foresees Lithuania's actions to combat climate change in the next decade. Five key directions have been set in the plan - reducing dependency on fossil fuels, energy efficiency, energy security, developing the internal energy market, developing research and innovation.
According to the plan, Lithuania should have renewable energy sources accounting for 45 percent of its total energy consumption by 2030.
Should all measures are implemented, greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced by 8.1 percent in Lithuania's transport sector, by 9.1 percent in agriculture, by 9.8 percent in industry and by 52.4 percent in the waste management sector.
The national plan will be submitted to the European Commission, which is expected to give its assessment on national plans by June 2020, the ministry said in the statement. (one euro currently equals to 1.12 U.S. dollars) 
Xinhua Headlines: China's high-speed rail links Winter Olympics cities
Mega bridge opens to traffic in southwest China
Beijing adds area for self-driving vehicle tests with passengers
In pics: aviation museum opened in Yinchuan, northwest China's Ningxia
Qinghai Lake enters "frozen period"
China's new aircraft carrier designed, built independently
Winter view of salt lakes in Yuncheng, N China's Shanxi
China's first suspension bridge integrating expressway, railway completes main body
