

** Sri Lanka dedicated to addressing climate change: parliament speaker **

* http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-10/26/c_138505339.htm *

COLOMBO, Oct. 26 (Xinhua) -- Sri Lanka's parliament Speaker Karu Jayasuriya said on Saturday that the country was dedicated to addressing climate change and taking all steps necessary to mitigate the crisis brought about by it.
Speaking at "Sri Lanka - NEXT 2019" conference held in the capital Colombo, Jayasuriya said Sri Lanka was a signatory to the Paris Agreement and was ready to adopt measures which would mitigate the crisis as the consequences of it were highly vulnerable and intense.
"Global politics revolve around climate change and world leaders cannot ignore the climate change crisis. This has a huge impact on the ultimate vote, visionary direction of a country and its environment governance. The phenomenon of climate change is independent from a country's magnitude, geo-political boundary or its political leadership," Jayasuriya said.
Sri Lanka was ranked second in the countries worst affected by climate change, according to the Global Climate Risk Index for 2019.
The report said heavy landslides and floods hit Sri Lanka after strong monsoon rains lashed south-western regions of the country in May 2017, and more than 200 people died after the worst rains in the country since 2003.
The monsoons displaced more than 600,000 people from their homes and 12 districts were affected.
In 2018 and 2019, several more deaths were reported from the annual monsoon rains. 
President Xi meets delegates attending Understanding China Conference
Preparations underway for upcoming 2nd China Int'l Import Expo
Scenery of red leaves in Pingshan County, N China's Hebei
17th China Wuqiao Int'l Circus Festival held in China's Hebei
In pics: populus euphratica forest in Ejin Banner, N China
Fifth C919 jet completes maiden test flight
Maple trees charm tourists in north China's Hebei
Activity celebrating 70th founding anniv. of PLA air force held in Changchun, Jilin
