

** Ecuador president to discuss country's climate change efforts at ... **

* http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-11/30/c_138594065.htm *

QUITO, Nov. 29 (Xinhua) -- President of Ecuador, Lenin Moreno, will discuss his country's efforts in the fight against climate change at the UN Climate Change Conference COP 25, which will take place in Madrid, Spain, from December 2 to 13, Ecuadorian Foreign Minister Jose Valencia said on Friday.
The head of Ecuador's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Human Mobility stated during a televised interview that at the COP25, Moreno would present "the different efforts" his government was making to "contribute to this global international fight against the warming of the atmosphere."
According to Valencia, Moreno will address two issues that are important for Ecuador, the first of which is related to the commitments the country has made to limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
The other central issue which Moreno will touch on is the impact of climate change and other phenomena on the Galapagos Islands.
He stated that the islands are "a national treasure," and were declared a Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 1978 by the United Nations Education, Science, and Culture Organization (UNESCO).
The Galapagos Islands are located in the Pacific Ocean, about 970 kilometers off the coast of mainland Ecuador.
Moreno will visit the Spanish capital between November 30 and December 4 to participate in the COP25, accompanied by an official committee headed by Valencia.
Moreno will participate in a meeting of Latin American presidents and in a round table discussion where the issue of how "countries are preparing to fight climate change" will be addressed, Valencia said.
He added that Moreno will also meet with the Secretary General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, as well as King Felipe VI of Spain, in addition to a bilateral meeting with the acting Spanish Prime Minister, Pedro Sanchez. 
Snow falls in Beijing
2019 China New Media Conference held in Changsha, China's Hunan
Donald Tusk hands over European Council to Charles Michel
Construction of each station along Beijing-Zhangjiakou high-speed railway to be completed
Wuhan-Shiyan high-speed railway put into operation
Intangible cultural heritage inheritor promotes traditional Yi embroidery in Yunnan
China's Yinchuan embraces first snowfall
Giant pandas eat bamboo during snowfall at zoo in Qinghai
